---
title: Next.js Intro
date: 2023-07-14 21:30:00 +0100
categories: [Coding, Next.js]
tags: [nextjs] # TAG names should always be lowercase
author: <author_id>
---

# Next.js

<aside>
💡 npx create-next-app@latest
</aside>

## Framework vs Library

1. **Framework**: a framework provides a complete software architecture with predefined rules and guidelines
   - The user follows predetermined rules to create file names, structure, etc., and follows the framework's lead. (The name of the file is IMPORTANT)
   - **Inversion of Control**: The framework controls the flow of the application and manages the execution of the code written by the developers.
   - **Extensibility**: Developers can extend the framework's capabilities by adding their own code.
   - **Opinionated**: Frameworks often impose certain conventions and design patterns to maintain consistency across projects built with the framework.
   - **Higher-level abstraction**: Frameworks provide a higher-level structure and often abstract complex technical details, allowing developers to focus on application-specific logic.
2. **Library**: a library offers specific functionalities or tools that developers can use within their applications
   - The user decides on the file names, structure, and makes all the decisions.
   - **Loose Coupling**: Libraries are loosely coupled with the application code and can be used selectively based on specific requirements.
   - **Functionality-focused**: Libraries are designed to solve specific problems or provide specific functionalities, and developers typically use them as building blocks within their applications.
   - **Lower-level abstraction**: Libraries operate at a lower level of abstraction, providing specific tools and utilities without dictating the overall structure or flow of the application.

The main difference between libraries and frameworks is the concept of "**Inversion of Control**" In a library, when you call a method, you have control over it. However, in a framework, control is inverted, and the framework calls you.

The name of the file is IMPORTANT

The name of the component is not important

The pages are going to be pre-rendered

React.js

- client-side render : a browser has to do all the work building the UI
- browser get the JS code (client-side JS build all the UI

Next.js

- it allows you to render pages on the server-side, which means that the HTML content of your web page is pre-rendered and sent to the user's browser
- so user can see at least something instead of just white page

## Hydration in Next.js

### What is Hydration?

Hydration refers to the process of adding interactivity and dynamic behavior to the pre-rendered HTML in Next.js. When the initial HTML is sent to the user's browser, Next.js automatically initializes the necessary JavaScript code to make the page interactive.

### Why is Hydration Important?

Hydration ensures that a Next.js page can function smoothly and respond to user interactions. By combining server-side rendering and client-side JavaScript, Next.js provides a fast initial page load with meaningful content, while enabling dynamic updates and interactions.

### Benefits of Hydration:

1. Faster Initial Page Load: Pre-rendered HTML is sent to the user, allowing them to see meaningful content even if JavaScript is disabled.
2. Interactivity and Dynamic Behavior: Hydration attaches JavaScript functionality to the pre-rendered HTML, making the page interactive and enabling features like user interactions, data fetching, and UI updates.
